docs(core): nx sync (#27825)
nrwl/nx: docs/shared/recipes/generators/register-sync-generator.md

Reviewer: I feel this recipe is either titled incorrectly or is for more things than it should be. The title is `Register a Sync Generator`, but we have two sections referring to how to create a sync generator.

# Register a Sync Generator

> Sync generators allow you to update code before a task is run or before code is sent to CI. From a technical perspective, a sync generator is no different from any other generator, but it has some additional performance considerations and needs to be registered in a particular way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sync generators are intended to keep applicable files in sync with your project graph before a task is run. From a technical perspective, a sync generator is no different from any other generator, but it has some additional performance considerations and needs to be registered in a particular way.
```

> Sync generators are intended to keep applicable files in sync with your project graph before a task is run. From a technical perspective, a sync generator is no different from any other generator, but it has some additional performance considerations and needs to be registered in a particular way.

Reviewer: I'm unsure what would be the best way to phrase it, but sync generators are not limited to keeping files in sync with the project graph.

nx g my-sync-generator --directory=tools/my-plugin/src/generators/my-sync-generator
```

A sync generator should be able to run without any required options, so update the schema accordingly:

```jsonc {% fileName="tools/my-plugin/src/generators/my-sync-generator/schema.json" %}
{
  "$schema": "https://json-schema.org/schema",
  "$id": "MySyncGenerator",
  "title": "",
  "type": "object",
  "properties": {},
  "required": []
}
```

Sync generators can optionally return an `outOfSyncMessage` to display to users when the sync generator needs to be run.

```ts {% fileName="tools/my-plugin/src/generators/my-sync-generator/my-sync-generator.ts" %}
import { Tree } from '@nx/devkit';
import { SyncGeneratorResult } from 'nx/src/utils/sync-generators';

export async function mySyncGenerator(
  tree: Tree
): Promise<SyncGeneratorResult> {
  if (
    !tree.exists('/legal-message.txt') ||
    tree.read('/legal-message.txt').toString() !==
      'This is an important legal message.'
  ) {
    tree.write('/legal-message.txt', 'This is an important legal message.');
  }
  return {
    outOfSyncMessage: 'The legal-message.txt file needs to be created',
  };
}

export default mySyncGenerator;
```

> ## Performance Considerations

Reviewer: I think that a recipe about creating sync generators should also suggest that sync generator authors be informative when throwing an error or returning an `outOfSyncMessage.` They should provide guidance to the user on how to address any error.

This is not a perf-related suggestion but an important DX suggestion. Sync generators can block tasks, so providing good feedback is important.

When writing a sync generator, it is important to remember that this generator is going to block the execution of its associated task and any tasks that depend on that task. Because of this fact, make sure to follow the following performance tips:

- Make the generator idempotent. Running the generator multiple times in a row should have the same impact as running the generator a single time.

> - Only write to the file system when a file is actually changed. Avoid reformatting files that have not been actually modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Only write to the file system when a file is actually changed. Avoid reformatting files that have not been actually modified. Nx will identify the workspace as out of sync if there's any file change after the sync generator is run.
```
